This part of the research are you free to call.
You both suggest after entering how to write a novel tool displays 894 phrases which are way too many.
The next step is to filter out some words.
I'll enter a positive filter so that only phrases with that word will appear.
I will end to write a novel and click volume to display the key words with the highest volume
copy the first 20 to 30 words before moving on.
It's necessary to explore related keywords by drilling down into the subject.
For example a novel has a plot superblocks dialogue genre and the theme so I can use each of these words
as a basis for more research.
Novels are also written in prose so prose is another phrase that I could use all of these form the basis
of less competitive keywords that relate directly to the service that I promote.
The services are all about writing courses helping people to write novels
use each new keyword to produce more possibilities in you suggest.
For this example I'll Alinta how to plot a novel and go through the same process to come up with another
20 to 30 words.
Remove key words that are obviously not relevant until you have a total list of 100 key word phrases
these represent the titles and you aureoles of possible posts for your new site.
However there's still a little more work to do and another tool to introduce
the browser extension or add on called keywords everywhere is invaluable as a quick check on volume
and competition.
Once they add on is installed either on Chrome or Firefox into a phrase into Google search and it will
instantly displace search volume and competitiveness
keywords are rated from 0 to 1 to 1.
Being highly competitive
The numbers give some indication of the phrase popularity among advertisers who bid for ads on Google
for this particular keyword.
It's not sure about the volume or competition or strictly accurate but they do give a reasonable indication.
I used two other methods a very occasion.
I don't talk about these in a few minutes.
At this point these focus keywords are indicative only the tools give us some indication of their competitiveness
and their value.
However it's a fact that over 50 percent of all the searches every day in Google have never been seen
before.
They are completely new to this.
The fact that voice search is changing the way that Google is searched Voice Search tends to use question
form in a much longer format than traditional text search.
Also more and more older people are using the Internet older people tend to use much longer sentences
in a questioning conversational tone even when they're writing text.
This is why I say that the main focus keywords that we find using the method that I describe are just
indicators only of course we would like to rank for these keywords because they are very good volumes
but mostly the key words that we're looking for are enclosed in much longer search phrases that users
tend to use with Google.
It's these longer search phrases that we need to make sure are included in the text included in our
site posts.
Because of increased competitiveness it's in our interest to choose a keyword with a reasonable volume
but with relatively low competition.
This is becoming more and more difficult but helped by the fact that more and more searches are being
used that are completely new in google many marketers focus on keywords with high volumes and therefore
high competition.
The logic is that if they get to page one with a high volume key word they will make a lot of money.
But the sad truth is that with a competitive keyword it will take a long time to get to page one.
If you get there at all so don't be too concerned if you have a post that is focused on a key word that
maybe only has between 50 to 100 searches a month.
First of all the tools that Google provides are not too accurate.
So maybe you'll get more than 50 to 100 searches a month.
And secondly if you have 100 posts on your website focusing on a keyword with 100 searches a month and
they all reach the top half of page one Google search you will be making money.
Now back to keyword verification.
Once I have a key word in mind a focus keyword for one of the posts using the tool keywords everywhere
I normally verify in two ways first enclose the query in inverted commas to show how many pages have
that exact phrase.
If the result is less than a thousand is probably a good candidate.
Then I use another tool keyword revealer to check further.
There's also a free planner limited to just three searches a day.
But this is often sufficient.
Simply click the button to see the Assessed competition.
The tool also lists related phrases that you might not have thought of.
I love a nice feature of the key word every word too is that it offers related suggestions which also
show volumes and competition.
Often this tool alone reveals interesting phrases with decent volume that you might not have thought
of.
Once you've chosen your domain name that includes your main key word and you have 100 key words that
are the targets of your posts and you or else you can proceed.
In the next video I'm going to run quickly through a basic WordPress installation.